# PASSWORD_BASED_DOOR_LOCK_SYSTEM_8051_microcontroller
The purpose of our project is to build a password-based door lock system using an 8051 microcontroller. Password base lock systems are very popular nowadays because of their simple yet very effective applications. Password-based systems are replacing a traditional key and lock-based system and password-based lock systems are also more secure and user friendly than traditional Key-based systems.

## Description
This can be used by organizations to ensure authorized access to highly secured places.it is a simple circuit that can be used at residential places to ensure better safety. With a slight modification, this Project can be used to control the switching of loads through the password.
While doing this project we got familiarized with the proteus simulation tool, Keil uv5 ide. We also learned how to use the LCD, keypad, and motors to build digital systems. We learned how to write c code for programming mcu8051 and how to generate hex file from the c code and how to use it with the proteus simulation file to run the simulation successfully. We faced difficulty when the motor that we used in the proteus simulation was not working. But after running proteus in admin mode the problem was resolved. The full project was done with the help of resources found online. We had no difficulties other than the motor not working. Everything else worked fine. It would have been better if we could do this project offline, on the university campus but due to covid we had no other option than to do the simulation online in proteus ad the lab was not held offline, We look forward to implementing it. this project offline if possible.
